Confluent kafka (#1669)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/components-reference/supported-pubsub/setup-confluent-kafka.md

---
type: docs
title: "Apache Kafka (confluent kafka)"

> linkTitle: "Apache Kafka (confluent kafka)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linkTitle: "Apache Kafka (Confluent)"
```
In the linkTitle it's best to be as concise as possible. Would shortening to this make sense?

description: "Detailed documentation on the Apache Kafka pubsub component by using confluent kafka sdk"
aliases:
  - "/operations/components/setup-pubsub/supported-pubsub/setup-confluent-kafka/"
---

## Component format

> To setup Apache Kafka pubsub using confluent kafka sdk create a component of type `pubsub.confluentkafka`. See [this guide]({{< ref "howto-publish-subscribe.md#step-1-setup-the-pubsub-component" >}}) on how to create and apply a pubsub configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set up Apache Kafka Pub/sub component using Confluent Kafka SDK. If you need a refresher, see our [How-To: Publish a message and subscribe to a topic guide]({{< ref "howto-publish-subscribe.md#step-1-setup-the-pubsub-component" >}}) to create and apply a Pub/sub configuration.

Create a Pub/sub component called `pubsub.confluentkafka.yaml` with the following example content:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: kafka-pubsub
  namespace: default
spec:
  type: pubsub.kafka
  version: v1
  metadata:
      # Kafka broker connection setting
    - name: configJson
      value: "{\"group.id\": \"dapr_test_group\",\"bootstrap.servers\" : \"1.2.3.4,5.6.7.8\",\"security.protocol\" : \"sasl_ssl\",\"sasl.mechanism\" : \"PLAIN\",\"sasl.username\" : \"username\",\"sasl.password\" : \"password\",\"ssl.ca.location\": \"/path/to/ca\",\"api.version.request\": true,\"message.max.bytes\": 1000000,\"linger.ms\": 10,\"retries\": 30,\"retry.backoff.ms\": 1000,\"acks\": \"1\"}"
```

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}

> The above example uses secrets. It is recommended to use a secret store for the secrets as described [here]({{< ref component-secrets.md >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above example uses secrets. We recommend using a [secret store for the secrets]({{< ref component-secrets.md >}}).
```

{{% /alert %}}

## Spec metadata fields

| Field              | Required | Details | Example |
|--------------------|:--------:|---------|---------|

> | configJson             | Y  | A json string consists of configurations of the sdk client. For more settings, see [confluent kafka configuration reference](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/installation/configuration/)  | 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| configJson             | Y  | A json string consists of configurations of the client SDK. For more settings, see the [Confluent Kafka configuration reference](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/installation/configuration/).  | 
```

## Per-call metadata fields

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When invoking the Kafka Pub/sub component, you can pass in several optional metadata parameters.
```

### Partition

> When invoking the Kafka pub/sub, it's possible to provide an optional partition section by using the `metadata` query param in the request url.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Provide an optional partition section with the `metadata` query parameter in the request URL.
```

> The param name is `partition`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The parameter name is `partition`.
```

Example:

```shell
curl -X POST http://localhost:3500/v1.0/publish/myKafka/myTopic?metadata.partition=3 \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
        "data": {
          "message": "Hi"
        }
      }'
```

### Key

> It's also possible to pass in an optional key for the message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pass in an optional key for the message.
```

> The param name is `key`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The parameter name is `key`.
```

Example:

```shell
curl -X POST http://localhost:3500/v1.0/publish/myKafka/myTopic?metadata.key=key1 \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
        "data": {
          "message": "Hi"
        }
      }'
```

> ### headers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Headers
```

> Unlimited number of headers can also be passed in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pass in an unlimited number of headers.
```

> The param name is begin with `header.`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The parameter name begins with `header.`.
```

Example:
```shell
curl -X POST http://localhost:3500/v1.0/publish/myKafka/myTopic?metadata.header.header1=1header&metadata.header.header2=2header \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
        "data": {
          "message": "Hi"
        }
      }'
```

## Create a Kafka instance
{{< tabs "Self-Hosted" "Kubernetes">}}

{{% codetab %}}

> You can run Kafka locally using [this](https://github.com/wurstmeister/kafka-docker) Docker image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run Kafka locally using [this Docker image](https://github.com/wurstmeister/kafka-docker). To run without Docker, see the [Apache Kafka getting started guide](https://kafka.apache.org/quickstart).
```

> To run without Docker, see the getting started guide [here](https://kafka.apache.org/quickstart).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

> To run Kafka on Kubernetes, you can use any Kafka operator, such as [Strimzi](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/latest/quickstart.html#ref-install-prerequisites-str).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can run Kafka on Kubernetes using any Kafka operator, such as [Strimzi](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/latest/quickstart.html#ref-install-prerequisites-str).
```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Related links
- [Basic schema for a Dapr component]({{< ref component-schema >}})

> - Read [this guide]({{< ref "howto-publish-subscribe.md##step-1-setup-the-pubsub-component" >}}) for instructions on configuring pub/sub components

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Create and configure Pub/sub components]({{< ref "howto-publish-subscribe.md##step-1-setup-the-pubsub-component" >}}).
```
